posts/sf2040.md, before:

{
"title": "sf2040",
"description": "An open-source 76-key mechanical keyboard based on the RP2040 microcontroller",
"tags": ["Raspberry Pi", "Hardware", "Keyboard"],
"author": "Noah",
"date": "2/18/2024",
"showTitle": true,
"indexed": true,
"disableHighlighting": true,
"pinned": true
}

> This page is a mirror of the README from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040).

### About

The sf2040 is a mechanical 76-key keyboard based on the [RP2040](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2040/rp2040-datasheet.pdf) microcontroller from Raspberry Pi.

### Features

-   USB Type-C Port
-   Fully open-source/open-hardware design and firmware files
-   **No LED backlight**
-   **No Bluetooth/wireless connectivity**

### Assembly/Mechanical Information

**Required** parts:

-   PCB ([Download Gerber](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/pcb/Gerber/Gerber.zip))
-   3D-printed case ([Download .STEP](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/case/Case.step))
-   Keyboard plate ([Download .STEP](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/plate/Plate.step))
-   _Your choice of 76 full-size MX-style keyswitches_
-   MX-style Hot Swap Switch Mounts ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0B4W9YMGM))
-   Screw-in PCB Mount Stabilizers ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0CN38CXQ3))

**Optional, but recommended** parts:

-   0.5mm Foam Switch Dampeners ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0B942VCMV))
-   Krytox 205 Grade 0 Lubricant
-   Switch disassembly tools
-   Case filler (I used off-brand polyester fiber)

### Firmware

This keyboard runs standard [QMK firmware](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/), configuration for which is included in the repository.

> The firmware can be downloaded pre-configured for this keyboard [here](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/raw/main/firmware/builds/sf2040.uf2).

The contents of the `firmware` folder in the repository should be copied into QMK's working keyboard directory (usually `qmk_firmware/keyboards`) before building.

Build with support for VIA enabled:

    qmk compile -kb sf2040 -km via

The RP2040's bootloader can be accessed by holding the **ESC** key while plugging in the keyboard. Then, simply drag-and-drop the output `.uf2` firmware into the bootloader folder.

This keyboard has **not** been merged into the [QMK repository](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards) or [VIA's keyboard repository](https://github.com/the-via/keyboards), so you will need to define a custom board in VIA by navigating to the Settings tab, enabling the Design tab, and clicking "Load Draft Definition". From here, select the [via.json](/firmware/sf2040/via.json) file to configure the keyboard.

> For more information about setting up and working with [QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/) keyboard firmware, read the QMK documentation (https://docs.qmk.fm).

### License

The sf2040 keyboard design and firmware is released under the GPL3 license. Contributions and pull requests to the repository are always welcome!

Commit message:

Add sf2040 OSHWA certification information

posts/sf2040.md, after:

{
"title": "sf2040",
"description": "An open-source 76-key mechanical keyboard based on the RP2040 microcontroller",
"tags": ["Raspberry Pi", "Hardware", "Keyboard"],
"author": "Noah",
"date": "2/18/2024",
"showTitle": true,
"indexed": true,
"disableHighlighting": true,
"pinned": true
}

> This page is a modified version of the README from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040). For the most recent and up-to-date version of this page, read the [GitHub version](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040) instead.

### About

The sf2040 is a mechanical 76-key keyboard based on the [RP2040](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2040/rp2040-datasheet.pdf) microcontroller from Raspberry Pi.

> This project has been certified by the OSHWA as open source hardware.
>
> `[OSHW] US002610 | Certified open source hardware | oshwa.org/cert`

### Features

-   USB Type-C Port
-   Fully open-source/open-hardware design and firmware files
-   **No LED backlight**
-   **No Bluetooth/wireless connectivity**

### Assembly/Mechanical Information

**Required** parts:

-   PCB ([Download Gerber](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/pcb/Gerber/Gerber.zip))
-   3D-printed case ([Download .STEP](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/case/Case.step))
-   Keyboard plate ([Download .STEP](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/blob/main/plate/Plate.step))
-   _Your choice of 76 full-size MX-style keyswitches_
-   MX-style Hot Swap Switch Mounts ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0B4W9YMGM))
-   Screw-in PCB Mount Stabilizers ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0CN38CXQ3))

**Optional, but recommended** parts:

-   0.5mm Foam Switch Dampeners ([Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0B942VCMV))
-   Krytox 205 Grade 0 Lubricant
-   Switch disassembly tools
-   Case filler (I used off-brand polyester fiber)

### Firmware

This keyboard runs standard [QMK firmware](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/), configuration for which is included in the repository.

> The firmware can be downloaded pre-configured for this keyboard [here](https://github.com/strayfade/sf2040/raw/main/firmware/builds/sf2040.uf2).

The contents of the `firmware` folder in the repository should be copied into QMK's working keyboard directory (usually `qmk_firmware/keyboards`) before building.

Build with support for VIA enabled:

    qmk compile -kb sf2040 -km via

The RP2040's bootloader can be accessed by holding the **ESC** key while plugging in the keyboard. Then, simply drag-and-drop the output `.uf2` firmware into the bootloader folder.

This keyboard has **not** been merged into the [QMK repository](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards) or [VIA's keyboard repository](https://github.com/the-via/keyboards), so you will need to define a custom board in VIA by navigating to the Settings tab, enabling the Design tab, and clicking "Load Draft Definition". From here, select the [via.json](/firmware/sf2040/via.json) file to configure the keyboard.

> For more information about setting up and working with [QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/) keyboard firmware, read the QMK documentation (https://docs.qmk.fm).

### License

The sf2040 keyboard design and firmware is released under the GPL3 license. Contributions and pull requests to the repository are always welcome!
